in this video,
we're going to show a tip for cleaning your data.
And this is a common problem.
Actually,
that might happen to you when you use data for creating pivot tables.
So here we've got some data here.
We've got a column containing some countries and let's create a pivot table out of it.
So I'm just going to select the whole column by pressing control and am a keyboard and then
insert a pivot table.
And actually,
instead of putting it in the new worksheet,
I want to put it actually just beside our data so that we can see what the problem is.
So we get a pivot table here created I'm gonna put the country in the rose section of the
pivot table,
and normally when you create a pivot table,
it should only show unique values.
But as you can see here,
we've got some duplicates of the countries who got is traded twice.
Friends twice,
Germany,
twice.
So what's the reason for that?
So the reason for that is that we've got leading oh,
training spaces in our values.
So actually,
if you double click on a value of press F two on your keyboard,
you're able to inspect the values to hear the value,
doesn't have any leading or training spaces.
But if we check the other Germany because we've got Germany twice here on the pivot table,
you can see here that it's got an extra space here at the end.
So this is what we've got to Germany values because the pivot table were recognized,
these values as two different values because one of them has a space,
a trading space at the end and the other one does not,
and the same cases for Francis Well,
so as you can see here for friends,
this one does not have any leading or training space.
But if we check the other friends,
he comes here.
The other friends does have a leading space,
actually,
So this is a common problem that you might face when creating pivot tables that you'd have
leading or trading spaces.
And that means spaces at the beginning or the end of your values that would make your
values seem different to the pivot table.
Though you know you're intending for this to be Germany and the other one to be Germany.
These should be the same value.
This is what you want.
So how do we get over this problem we can use actually a function in excel to clean our
data,
which is the trim function so equals trim and the term function removes any leading or
training spaces in our values.
So that means any spaces before a ward or any spaces after a ward extra spaces after award
.
And this is what we need So we can use the trim function and we can just apply it to all
our values here.
And then we can actually copy and pieced our values years to right click and we're gonna
paste values because we're gonna pace the values,
not the formula.
And then we're gonna delete our function here,
and then we can actually refresh our pivot table,
right?
Click on our pivot table and then refresh.
As you can see here,
we Onley now have unique values.
We don't have any duplicates in our pivoting on.
This is a common problem that you would face when using pivot tables